# NWReminds PromptPal

The problem:
Sedentary lifestyles in front of the computer have increased since the COVID-19 pandemic with work from home job positions or remote courses and lectures. As many people may have already experienced, sitting for long periods of time can give rise to various health concerns such as fatigue, discomfort, and back pain. At 8-11 hours of sitting per day, people are considered to be in HIGH group for heart diseases, type 2 diabetes and cancer. Furthermore, focusing on a specific task on the computer for long periods of time often diverts your attention from taking care of the small things such as drinking water, stretching or just taking a break, This invariably creates an imbalance in the work-life balance that is crucial in maintaining a healthy lifestyle. 

The solution:
PromptPal aims to resolve this problems, making sure that you are healthy and energized throughout the day! Current reminder apps either nonspecifically address any reminder requested by the user or focused on just one or two out of the three areas we focus on. PromptPal is a web-based application designed to remind you of these three core actions (staying hydrated, active and energized) personalized to the user. Upon login, the user can access the reminders they have created as well as statistics on their overall mood throughout the time they use the app and other details associated with the amount of water they drink and the parts of their body they found uncomfortable and required a little stretching.  The user has the ability to create a new reminder out of the three types and request an interval (HH:MM:SS) in which they want to be reminded. Once the reminder has been sent, the user will receive a desktop notification every X intervals they specified. For each interruption, the user will be prompted to answer a few questions involving the amount of water they drank or any areas they feel uncomfortable, in which case the application will suggest a series of solutions to resolve the discomfort. 

Steps taken to create this: 
We began by creating a framework diagram of our goals and aims for the project and then took on with actualizing our ideas. The frontend of our web application is built from HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Our backend consists of Javascript where we access the MongoDB database to gain access to the user's informations. We access the Push API in order to enable desktop notifications for reminding the user.
